All right.
It's time to talk about the very last point the service worker to make our progressive web at what is
a service worker.
Sounds like something useful doesn't it service worker is a script that your browser runs in the background
separate from the web page web app.
It is generally used for features that don't need a web page or user interaction.
Remember the main thread that I kept talking about how there's one worker that's trying to work with
a simple CSX and JavaScript well think of service worker as a another worker that you now have in the
browser.
A background worker and it acts as what we call a programmable proxy allowing us to control what happens
on a request by request basis and it's the reason that we can make our apps our progressive web apps
work offline.
That sounds pretty interesting right.
Now if service workers have been recently added into browsers including safari and besides offline experiences
it also helps with background sinks and push notifications.
But we're only going to talk about how service worker allows for our offline experiences because that's
its main feature and things such as background sync and push notifications are still fairly new and
best practices are still forming around them I believe resources for you to explore this further if
you're interested in those topics but for now let's get back to the most important part How do we use
a service worker well if we go back to our create react app you might remember that we created within
our create react app Well we didn't really create it.
It created it for us.
This file called register service worker and we go to index stored yes we remember that in our main
app that we render we had our react on the render but also we had this function register service worker
that I kind of brushed it off.
Up until now this register service worker gets imported from yep you guessed it our register service
worker file and as you go through this file it can look pretty overwhelming but they have great commerce
to show you what it does.
But let me show you the gist of it and what this entire file is doing.
It's a lot simpler than you think let's open up a new tab here and open up our console.
This is what the register service worker is doing.
That's a little too big.
Let's see if that works
it checks for browser support of service worker.
So it's saying hey do we actually have service worker in our navigator or our browser.
And remember each browser has its own developer teams in each browser can decide to implement this new
feature called service worker or not.
There's actually a really good Web site called is service worker ready that I'll link to where you can
see which versions of the browsers have implemented service workers if we go back.
We do this check because we want to make sure that when we do navigator dot service worker we don't
get an error saying we don't know about service worker why are you talking about so we say if there
is a service worker we want to use this service worker property of the navigator.
That is the browser and we want to do something called register and we want to register it using this
file.
The service worker dot s file and registering is just the common way for you to create a service worker
on your web page now.
Whereas this service worker J.S. coming from if we go back to our app the service worker J.S. is getting
created from this file in our build folder.
When we run NPM run build and create react app we see that we now have a service worker dot J.S. file
and it's modified.
So it's really really hard to read but all it's doing is running the default registration of the service
worker that you can pretty much grab anywhere online
and that's it.
It's literally just one single line you see that it's a promise that returns the registration and we
can just log out some properties on it.
But there's a successful registration and if it fails well it fails and we can say whoops service worker
registration fails with just this if statement we check if the browser has a service worker and if it
does we just simply run the register function fairly simple now registering the service worker is going
to cause the browser to start the service worker install step in the background.
Again with the other worker and once a service worker is activated and registered this successful case
it's going to be in one of two states it's either going to be terminated to save memory or it's going
to be running in the background to fetch messages and events that occurs in the network request.
Now what does that mean before I get to that.
Let's go back to our application.
Let me make this smaller.
Go to the application tab and you'll see here that we have below manifest.
The service worker tab and we see that service worker right now.
There's nothing here.
But if I go to our demo app that is a progressive web app and I click on service workers we see that
oh there's something here.
It looks like there is a service worker that has been registered from service worker Dodge.
Yes.
It shows us when it was registered and the status and right now it's stopped because while we're not
doing anything with this page we can register on register the service worker if we want but it looks
like on this web page we have this service worker running.
Let me show you a diagram to illustrate to you what this all means and why we care.
You see without a service worker our browser is going to send a request to the network.
This little icon you can think of it as the Internet network.
We send a request we find the server and the server responds back with some files.
Let's say a javascript file but now that we have a service worker registered we tell the browser Hey
before you go ahead and do this.
Talk to the service worker first maybe he knows something you see in a progressive web app.
The service worker acts as a what we call a network proxy it intercepts any requests made first to the
network.
Like I said step one over here and checks to see if you really need to communicate with the network
because maybe he already has those files.
When a user opens a new screen of a progressive web app the request for that page first goes to the
service worker not the network.
The service worker then tries to access something called the cache API and this is something that the
browsers give you.
Again most browsers have this because they included this feature with service worker and this cache
API is kind of like a box where the browser stores files such as JavaScript files SS files any static
files could be images it could be anything you want the worker tries to access check the box and see
is whatever I'm requesting inside of this box if the content is available then we'll get the new page
through here and the service worker is going to return the page regardless of the network activity we're
never requesting to the network but if the service worker comes back and says Mr. browser I don't have
the file that you request that you're gonna have to talk to the network then we go back to talking to
the network the old way that we did thanks and getting those files.
Now what does this cache storage API.
Again if we go back to our example and scroll down to cache we have something called cache storage and
this cash storage is exactly what the service worker checks.
If I click over here we see that.
Oh yeah.
We have a cash of a few JavaScript files and also some HMO if I go to the other one.
I see some icons that are also and some list that are also being cashed
variable so we cash the Web site or the shell of the Web site.
Remember whatever we wanted to.
We want to work offline in this cash storage API via the service worker so that on repeat visits even
though the very first time the user browses and goes to a Web site they'll have to go to the network
because this cache API will be empty once the network returns with those files we can cache those files
and on repeat visits the app shell can be loaded instantly all right.
Stop talking Andre show me how we can actually do this thing.
Show me some code.
Well you're in luck in the next few videos we're gonna go through these steps and finally turn our app
into a progressive web app before I do that again.
I just want to show you how things work underneath the hood if we go back to our create react app.
I wanted to show you how this would work before create react app implemented.
Service workers because right now it's kind of being done behind the scenes for you which is really
really nice.
But what if you had to implement it on your own it's actually quite easy and you can look at this page
that I'm going to link to to show you what you would have done if you go over here.
We see that all we needed to do was download something called service worker pre cash and in our built
step where we say react scripts build we would just run this command.
The service worker Prakash with config of this file kind of similar to how Web pack config worked.
So we give it this configuration file in our index not H2 AML we do the classic if service worker exists
in the browser we're going to register the service worker we have our manifest file that we add and
then finally with this package that we installed s w Prakash will here all we're doing is setting up
the config telling it that we want to use the built folder and I want you to put in the cache any file
that's an issue in my file and any J sound files or manifest that Jason File and anything in the static
folder and we're gonna use the service worker dot J.S. thought that that's it.
And if you remember in the static folder for create react app we have our CSX javascript and some media
files how simple is that very very cool.
Again remember we're just using the tools that browsers provide for us to make our websites faster.
That's it for now.
I'll see in the next one by.